Document the "event-stream" npm package exploit (#516)
cncf/sig-security: supply-chain-security/compromises/2018/event_stream.md

# The event-stream vulnerability

The package `event-stream` is a popular npm package used by numerous other npm packages which became even more famous after the exploit
found in it in 2018-th.

A new contributor named "right9ctrl" made series of meaningful contributions to the `event-stream` package and
eventually on he/she gain the trust of the original author of the package and the ownership of the event-stream was transferred to him/her.

Later, on September 4th, 2018 "right9ctrl" released a new version of the package containing a new npm dependency called `flatmap-stream`.
`flat-map` was an npm package specifically crafted for the purposes of this attack.

> IT contained a fairly simple `index.js` file, as well as a minified `index.min.js` file.

Reviewer: nit: IT -> it

The two files on GitHub appear innocent enough.
**However, in the published npm package, the minified version of the file has additional code injected into it.**
At the time of the attack, there was no requirement that code being uploaded in an npm module should be equivalent to the code stored
publicly in a git repository.

The additional code contained a highly targeted attack against users of a crypto waller app called [bitpay/copay](https://github.com/bitpay/copay).
The code did the following:
1. Looking for the victim hot wallet profiles (this could have been running in mobile apps as well as your regular browser, regardless the device).
2. Iterate over all wallet ids and mapping all public keys.

> 3. Send it to a server in Kuala Lumpur and most likely controlled by the attacker.

Reviewer 2: Some extra detail here:

1. Decrypt and execute a hidden AES-encrypted payload using the `package.json` description as a key
1. Search the victim device for "hot wallet" cryptocurrency profiles (this could have been running in mobile apps as well as your regular browser, regardless of the device)
1. Iterate over any crypto wallet IDs to check wallet balances and retrieve private keys
1. For wallets with significant Bitcoin or Bitcoin Cash balances, send the private keys and account data to a server in Kuala Lumpur that was likely controlled by the attacker

> 3. Send it to a server in Kuala Lumpur (hosted here: https://www.shinjiru.com.my/) and most likely controlled by the attacker.

Reviewer: maybe let's remove the link to the malicious server here :)

# The event-stream vulnerability

The package `event-stream` is a popular npm package used by numerous other npm
packages which became even more famous after the exploit found in it in 2018-th.

A new contributor named "right9ctrl" made series of meaningful contributions to

> the `event-stream` package and eventually on he/she gain the trust of the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the `event-stream` package and eventuallysgained the trust of the
```

original author of the package and the ownership of `event-stream` was transferred

> to him/her.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to "right9ctrl".
```

Later, on September 4th, 2018 "right9ctrl" released a new version of the package
containing a new npm dependency called `flatmap-stream`.
`flat-map` was an npm package specifically crafted for the purposes of this
attack. It contained a fairly simple `index.js` file, as well as a minified

> `index.min.js` file.The two files on GitHub appear innocent enough.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`index.min.js` file.  The two files on GitHub appear innocent enough.
```
